---
layout: post
title: Outgrowing Clubs
---

I used to keep a list of the best things in live. Just as a note to remember the wonders of the world and our culture. One of the topics on that list was the blissful experience of dancing until sunrise with strangers (and also friends, for that matter). I remember moments in crowded exterior balconies from those famous clubs just by the river. Surrounded by all sorts of people all collectively in awe of the utter beauty of dawn. All expressing those same feelings with their silly body movements. I used to compare such sensations with those of participating in the communion of Sunday mass- a moment of pure human connection, of pure collective enlightenment, a moment of shared bliss.

Well, yesterday I went to a club. And you know what? I hated it. Everything about it was just awful. The people, the stupidly loud music, the whole flirting culture, the smell... It just felt like an horrible experience. What happened to clubs? Or worse, what happened to me?

I'm no expert in ear health, but I'm positive those sound levels are not harmless to our hearing. I don't know how I used to dismiss this, but clubs are LOUD. But if you're being loud, at least use it for good and play some tasteful music. I'm a pretty unprejudiced guy when it comes to music. (I'm totally aware that people who claim no prejudice are usually hold most prejudices.) People usually even mock me, because one second I can be listening to the most hardcore rap, and the next to a Schubert symphony. My point being, any DJ could put almost any music and would have me gracefully offer my whole body movement towards the rhythm. Even with such low probabilities of disappointing me, this one surely did. The whole night was filled with loud (have I mentioned it was loud?) latin and Brazilian funk beats, who actually lacked any excitement. I know none is lyrically analysing songs on clubs, but an entire night with lyrics about women's genitalia? Is that necessary? I guess nowadays the beautiful human connection I felt in clubs was replaced by literal human connection (I'm referring to sexual intercorse, for the most slow out there). Clubs now only serve one purpose - sex. Maybe it was like that all along and I was too ingenuous, who knows? Maybe all those intense looks, all those eyes filled with wonder were nothing but sex-craving eyes (which I honestly doubt).I felt like people were no longer dancing for the pleasure of dancing but just as an absurd sexual ritual, a way of attracting mates. I find that very demeaning.

Maybe I just outgrown clubs, or maybe clubs actually changed. But there's one thing i'm sure - You won't see me in a club like that ever again. From now on I'm a club snob. I'll only go to places who value dancing for dancing, music for music, human connection for human connection. I want that blissful experience again and I'm hopeful to find it, it just might not be at a club.
