---
layout: post
title: ''Leaders''
---

Everything would be better if there were no leaders. Centralised power is the recipe for chaos. Analyse the history of the world and you'll arrive to a conclusion: all progress was incentivised by war.

I have no doubt that Plato, Newton or Einstein had the most profound pleasure while discovering their enormous contributions. They said it themselves. But the only reason they ever got the resources to dedicate their whole lives to such beautiful conceptual ideias was for their practical use in War. 
Ancient analog computers were invented to predict tides in battlefields, modern digital computers to decrypt military messages and most famously nuclear fusion made the biggest literal destroyer of human lives - the nuclear bomb. War is the drive for all human culture. From the foragers tribal rivalry, passing trough ancient greeks' obsession with philosophy, all the renaissance instrumentalization of art and religion, to our modern development of technology. All feeding this meaningless purpose of 'protecting' humanity from humanity itself. To attack humans to protect other better humans? Who defend themselves because they too believe they are the better humans? Am I misunderstanding War, here?

Maybe our biological urge to belong to a tribe speaks louder than anything else. All culture seems kind of obsessed with this belonging crave: to a God; to a country, a state, a nation; to an organisation, a company; to a family, a class, a group identity; everything. We have these need to divide everything into 'us' versus 'them' - left vs right, good vs bad, nation vs enemy, nazis vs punks, vaccinated vs unvaccinated, 'lgbtq+' vs bigots, citizens vs immigrants, us vs competition... We feel this urge to defend our group identity and attack foreign ones. Most leaders haven't the intellectual capabilities of recognising these biological impulses and actually believe them 'useful' or even 'rational'. That killing people is the right thing to do because 'they are on our property', or 'they violated human rights' as if appropriating science, art, and culture; brainwashing soldiers; and bombarding cities is a kind of justified answer over the 'theft' of a self-proclaimed 'property' or most of all an exemplary homage to the declaration of human rights.

The so called 'leaders' that our current society compliments so much. The CEOs, sergeants, politicians are nothing but idiots. People who have no competence in anything and so believe that 'managing' other's people talent is something necessary. That are drowned on these binary views of the world so use the utter beauty of human geniality towards idiotic goals of 'conquest', 'profit', or just plain 'vanity'.  All leaders are stupid for the mere fact that they believe that having a leader is a necessary thing.

I cannot help but feel enraged when such beauty (of art, science, and human lives in general) is being used for all the wrong reasons. See all these fascinating experts unheard while their creations are being used by these dumb people against the principles that made their creations in the first place. The geniality of humanity in the hands of these egocentric, vain, superfluous, self-interested, power-hungry, blatantly ignorant, oblivious, pretentious, envious, hateful and sad little idiots. Who use them in the complete wrong way, because they are either too dumb to understand them or too evil to profit from them.

Our society should not be governed by leaders, but by the experts themselves. Not in centralised way but in a decentralised way. If I had hurt my knee I would like it to be seen by an actual scientist specialised on knees (or even better by a whole group of them), not by a political 'scientist'. So why do we give power to these pseudo sapient 'leaders'? It makes no sense that an economist or political 'scientist' should be making decisions on matters of culture or public health or education. Experts should. Not hand picked experts by a 'leader' (as modern governments usually claim to do) but a whole community of peer nominated experts, whose power is completely decentralised over each speciality group.  This means there's no longer space for ego, nor personal benefits, nor tribal mentality, and above all  - no space for a 'leader'. [^1]

A world with no Jobs but full of Wozniaks; Nuclear fusion but no nuclear bomb; Social media but no mass surveillance; Free information but no social control; Science for its approximation of truth, Art for its beauty; Life for its own sake. Such astonishing outcome at the reach of most simple of measures: getting rid of the most horrendous kind of human - 'Leaders'.

[^1] : This is actually the original idea behind blockchain technology, but those atrocious 'leaders' had to also ruin that for us. I guess while they're among us, we will never have this whole society thing actually functioning.
