---
tilte: Good Art
layout: post
---

Having found myself with an unusual amount of free time to spare, I've been surrounding myself with art - mostly literature, film and music. This is what I lack - beautiful, intriguing, meaningful, altering new art. That's certainly a thing I'm not wasting my life on (unlike most other things one can do). The power of art is immeasurable.

Since today's landscape is way more prone for art creation - the means of art production and distribution are democratically distributed; never before has it been so easy for someone to express themselves through art - means an awful amount of art (way more than ever) must exist.

The thing is, and let's be honest - most of it is simply not good (not good in a subjective way, of course). I do not seek art that aims to solely to entertain or distract (if that can be even called art in the first place). I'm referring to the type of art you would see winning prizes - that's art as a commodity, that is praised for its industrial qualities of alienation - spreading ideology; and escape - alleviating audience's unconformity desires; which is exactly the power dictators always saw in art which further allowed them social control. 

I seek art that uses its medium to depict an alien facet of the human condition, that doesn't only give me pleasure for how it does it, but is able to change me for what it shows me. It's not just art that arranges sounds, colours, or words in the most pleasing ways but that by doing so communicates something I didn't know before and that couldn't be communicated in any other way. It's the ultimate channel for humanity.

It's kind of frustrating knowing that there is so much beautiful art to be found but yet the overload of all information makes impossible to find. So if you find some art that's utterly beautiful please send me an e-mail at mailadhoc@protonmail.ch .
