---
layout: post
title: Autonomy as a Young Adult
---

Being in the first years of adulthood still living with my parents, a common topic around friends and family regards 'autonomy' - the ability to be independent from others. What I've been noticing around me is that everyone my age is actively seeking a more autonomous and independent life. That means all those classic signs of adulthood: moving out, buying a car, getting a girlfriend, finding a job and developing a career, buying a house... The thing is I cannot help seeing all these socially constructed milestones as more limiting than liberating. By following these common steps I feel more like I'm voluntarily imprisoning myself than actually breaking free. 

Let's start with a job. What kind of lunatic actually believes that spending the majority of their youth days mindlessly working is a step further towards freedom? It's not like you can have the perks of youthfulness ever again - that body will only worsen from now on, the energy, the excitement, the wonder, will all fade - and yet I'm supposed to waste most of it looking at a computer screen following mindless tasks for eight hours a day? I don't get why one would happily succumb to that. Even if you argue that you're contributing to the creation of value, I'd argue that that would only be the case if you were doing a pretty basic job (like cleaning toilets or collecting garbage...) which are usually poorly paid, and that otherwise you're simply deceived. As Graeber exposed on *Bullshit Jobs*: most jobs (of the bourgeoisie type such as manager, marketeer, HR, and the like...) are not only useless but actually harmful - you're not either creating value nor playing a null sum game, but actually destroying value. And yet you're still able to defend working as a path to freedom? How is that not a controversial position? I wish more people would know how unvaluable their work is so that they could start living meaningful lives once for all.

Moving out after buying or renting a house must be the one thing most of young adults see as the main breakthrough towards independence - as if constraining the vast majority of your income on a rent or mortgage (the average where I live goes up to 80%) is such a freeing experience. Having shelter is undoubtedly a necessity, but what is the hurry? Having the possibility to live rent-free, why would you voluntarily seek to imprison yourself for the sake of freedom? Isn't that an antithesis? I know you might want to make your own decisions without parental approval, or maybe to get break out your family culture, but is that worth what it costs? If so, you're doing it right. For me, it's not.

What about a car? Isn't that freedom of movement? Of course it is, if you believe looking for spots to park on, being stuck on traffic, paying insurance is liberating. Choosing to have a car is choosing to be more dependent - you now depend on external infrastructures (roads, and parking lots, the price of oil or charging station for electric ones...). Having a car is only a necessity if there's an engraved idea that the car is a necessity. The car is more burden than blessing.

About getting married and such I cannot disagree that love is a beautiful thing, maybe even the most beautiful (post on that soon), but what I'm seeing frequently seems to me not to be love but planned arrangements - as the conjuncture makes so difficult for one to sustain by themselves. Not quite the type of familiar arrangement seen on Victorian times, but one that involves the management of peoples' resources (money, status, patrimony, life and career goals) as to find the best partner to start a life with - the so much loved 'free market' working even in matters of 'love'. Why hurry? Chaining yourself to someone you don't love for the sake of utilitarian benefits is again an act of voluntary imprisonment.

It's like people are cuffing themselves and gladly telling me: 'Look how free we are now! Obliged to spend our youth on offices doing detrimental work so that we can pay all the bills for things that limit us even further! Choosing to spend our little spare time with someone we loathe but that can make ends meet! How envious you might be of our self conquered freedom!'. I'm glad you're happy, I guess. 

I may be wrong and childish, and my future self might be judging me for it. I am not here to judge (or ridicule) who makes these decisions, but to show why I'm not also making them - which usualy makes people quite incredulous.

And just as an endnote. I'm gradually more convicted that 'consuming' in the most general sense is always constraining me further. Whenever I buy anything I'm become more of a slave to the system. Consequently the least I buy, the freer I am. 

So maybe I will never grow up - if that means all of the above, but I honestly don't believe that is a bad thing. 

What do you think? 
Send your thoughts at mailadhoc@protonmail.ch
